**yadg** functionality
----------------------

**yadg** offloads the responsibility of processing the raw data files to its 
modules, called parsers. The currently implemented parsers are documented in the 
following links:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Yadg parsers

   parsers.dummy

Units and uncertainties
```````````````````````
One of the key features of **yadg** is the enforced association of units and 
uncertainties with measured properties. This means that all floating-point values
are stored in the format ``{"n": float, "s": float, "u": str}``, where ``"n"`` is
the nominal value, ``"s"`` is the uncertainty, and ``"u"`` is the unit. An 
arbitrary unit is denoted as ``"-"``.

In many cases it is possible to define more than one uncertainty: for example,
accuracy, precision, resolution etc. may be available The convention in **yadg** 
is that if both a measure of within-measurement uncertainty (resolution) and a 
cross-measurement error (accuracy) are available, ``"s"`` corresponds to resolution 
associated with each datapoint, and the accuracy of the measurement (which is 
normally a higher value than that of the resoution) should be noted in the step 
metadata.

Unless more information is available, when converting :class:`str` data to
:class:`float`, the uncertainty is determined from the last significant digit
specified in the :class:`str`. For this, the functionality from within the
`uncertainties package <https://pythonhosted.org/uncertainties/>`_ is used.

When derived data is generated by **yadg**, error propagation is handled using the 
linear error propagation functionality as implemented in the `uncertainties 
package <https://pythonhosted.org/uncertainties/>`_ .

Object validation
`````````````````
Additionally, **yadg** provides `schema` and `datagram` validation functionality, 
should be used to ensure that the incoming `schema` is valid and that the processed 
`datagram` conforms to the specification. The documentation of this functionality 
is discussed in :mod:`yadg.core.validators`. Among others, the validators ensure
that provenance data is included for every operation, and that uncertainties and 
units are specified for each measurement.

